Add IronCore Labs partner blog (#1146)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2022-11-09-OpenSearch-Partner-Highlight-Using-Cloaked-Search.md

---
layout: post

> title:  "OpenSearch Partner Highlight: Using Cloaked Search to Protect Your Data"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title:  "OpenSearch partner highlight: Using Cloaked Search to protect your data"
```

Reviewer: Global: I have changed the title and headings throughout to sentence case, and I have changed mentions of "application-layer encryption" following the definition to "ALE".

Author: @natebower thanks for the careful review! I incorporated the changes in one commit instead of committing the individual suggestions.

Reviewer: @BobWall23 My pleasure :-)

authors:
  - zmre
date:   2022-11-09 1
categories:
  - partners
---

> Most companies will tell you that the data they hold is well protected. They'll say it's encrypted “at-rest and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most companies will tell you that the data they hold is well protected. They'll say it's encrypted “at rest and
```

> in-transit,” which means they use HTTPS and disk-level or database-level encryption. Unfortunately, this isn't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in transit,” which means they use HTTPS and disk-level or database-level encryption. Unfortunately, this isn't
```

the protection most people think it is.

> ## Most Encryption Claims Are Smoke and Mirrors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Most encryption claims are smoke and mirrors
```

What passes for data protection these days is often wildly overblown on the “protection” front.

HTTPS protects the data for a brief moment in time by warding off eavesdroppers and interlopers, but it
**doesn't change the availability of the data**. For example, this blog is served over HTTPS, and you are
probably not authenticated.

“At-rest encryption” is really only useful when someone steals a hard drive. When used by an always-on server,

> the value drops near to zero. That's because the encryption key is only needed when the system starts up and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the value drops to near zero. That's because the encryption key is only needed when the system starts up, and
```

Reviewer: I suggest "...is only needed when the system starts up, after which the protection is transparent...".

after that, the protection is transparent to anybody accessing the server.

> ![Application Layer Encryption]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/media/blog-images/2022-11-09-OpenSearch-Partner-Highlight-Using-Cloaked-Search/app-layer-enc.png){:class="img-centered"}

Reviewer: Are we able to hyphenate "Application-Layer"?

> ## Application-layer Encryption: A Better Approach

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Application-layer encryption: A better approach
```

When you encrypt the data before it is sent to the storage layer, an attacker scraping a database gets a bunch
of garbage bytes that aren't useful to them without the relevant keys. This is known as application-layer
encryption (ALE) because it happens at the layer above the data store instead of below it.

> By separating the data and keys, companies can achieve meaningful defense-in-depth where the everyday problems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By separating the data and keys, companies can achieve meaningful defense-in-depth, where the everyday problems
```

of cloud misconfigurations, application vulnerabilities, and network breaches don't necessarily result in a
data breach. This makes gaining access to the needed keys an entirely different and more difficult problem for
an attacker.  

> If this approach were used more often, we wouldn't constantly have stories about attackers that get into a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this approach were used more often, we wouldn't constantly hear stories about attackers who get into a
```

corporate network, move laterally within the network to a database server, and then scrape all of the data
down for sale on the darknet. The companies who are implementing this correctly are the ones who aren't in
the news.

> ## Why Encrypt Data in OpenSearch?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why encrypt data in OpenSearch?
```

Search services are often an underprotected backdoor way to gain access to sensitive data. They frequently hold
personal information like names and addresses. They can hold log data that includes web form submissions. They
may hold communications records like emails, customer messages, and chats. They may also hold insider-trading

> fodder like roadmap info, financial projections, legal documents, and much more.

Reviewer: In this paragraph, you might consider combining a few of the sentences so that you avoid a staccato tone.

A search service is akin to an attractive nuisance. Just as a swimming pool without a fence will attract
neighborhood kids, search data without encryption will attract hackers and employees.

> The employee side is what we call the “curious insider” problem where trusted users ignore policy and bypass or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The employee side is what we call the “curious insider” problem, where trusted users ignore policy and bypass or
```

> abuse application-level access controls to peek at data they shouldn't. Database administrators, ops, customer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
abuse application-level access controls in order to peek at data they shouldn't. Database administrators, ops, customer
```

> support, engineering – in most companies, many of these roles can sneak peeks at sensitive data. And these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
support, engineering—in most companies, many of these roles can sneak peeks at sensitive data. And these
```

trusted folks who scratch the itch of curiosity can get a company in just as much trouble as a hacker.

![Cloaked Search Proxy]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/media/blog-images/2022-11-09-OpenSearch-Partner-Highlight-Using-Cloaked-Search/cloaked-search-proxy.png){:class="img-centered"}

Access to sensitive data should always be controlled. Backdoor access should be eliminated whenever possible.

> That includes controlling access by admins. With application-layer encryption, a company can build in these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That includes controlling access by admins. With ALE, a company can build in these
```

> controls for all users and administrators, and can fortify legitimate access with unbypassable audit trails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
controls for all users and administrators and can fortify legitimate access with unbypassable audit trails.
```

> ## Protecting Search Data with Cloaked Search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Protecting search data with Cloaked Search
```

> At IronCore Labs, we provide tools and technologies that help companies protect the data they hold with

Reviewer: Instead of "the data they hold", I suggest "their data".

> application-layer encryption while keeping that data usable. One way we do that is to enable search over

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ALE while keeping that data usable. One way we do that is by enabling search over
```

encrypted data.

[Cloaked Search](https://ironcorelabs.com/products/cloaked-search/) by IronCore Labs is a drop-in proxy that
sits in front of OpenSearch and automatically encrypts the sensitive data before it gets to the OpenSearch

> service. It's application-layer encryption for search. To search the data then requires a valid key. If you

Reviewer: Instead of "To search the data then requires a valid key", I suggest "A valid key is then required in order to search the data."

> service. It's application-layer encryption for search. To search the data then requires a valid key. If you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
service. It's ALE for search. To search the data then requires a valid key. If you
```

don't have a valid key, the data in OpenSearch is useless.

![Cloaked Search Benefits]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/media/blog-images/2022-11-09-OpenSearch-Partner-Highlight-Using-Cloaked-Search/benefits.png){:class="img-entered"}

> ## Features and Functionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Features and functionality
```

Cloaked Search is easy to deploy, simple to configure, **and immediately adds protection to the private data

>  held in your search service**. It comes packaged as a Docker container which deploys in your infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
held in your search service**. It comes packaged as a Docker container that deploys on your infrastructure.
```

> Your application connects to it and it then connects to the OpenSearch service. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your application connects to it, and it then connects to the OpenSearch service. 
```

> No plugins or other modifications are needed to OpenSearch, so it works as well with Amazon's service as with

Reviewer: It looks like there may be a missing word(s) in the first clause prior to "OpenSearch".

your own cluster. And it can be configured such that even Amazon, if you host with them, can't access your
sensitive data.

> Cloaked Search protects text fields and supports the most popular types of queries. It handles boolean searches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloaked Search protects text fields and supports the most popular types of queries. It handles Boolean searches
```

(“and/or” qualifiers) with “must” and “must not” restrictions, prefix searches, suffix searches, phrase searches,

> and phonetic searches. Results are similar to what you would get without the encryption. Cloaked Search supports

Reviewer: Would it make sense for this to read "The results are similar"?

> weightings of fields and other rank tuning, though you can't do everything. For example, Cloaked Search doesn't

Reviewer: "weighting" (to refer to the general concept)?

support regular expression searches on encrypted fields. But for most users, it drops in and just works.

![Cloaked Search Functionality]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/media/blog-images/2022-11-09-OpenSearch-Partner-Highlight-Using-Cloaked-Search/functionality.png){:class="img-entered"}

For those who are holding personal, private, sensitive, or regulated data in their OpenSearch service, Cloaked

> Search reduces the inherent risks. This makes it easier to meet data privacy laws, data security requirements

Reviewer: Instead of "meet", would "comply with" work?

set by statutes, and contractual obligations. If you offer software as a service, it also helps you earn the
trust of your customers. And for customers who have multiple tenants within OpenSearch, Cloaked Search seamlessly
integrates with SaaS Shield.

![SaaS Shield Integration]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/media/blog-images/2022-11-09-OpenSearch-Partner-Highlight-Using-Cloaked-Search/saas-shield.png){:class="img-entered"}

> If you're looking for application-layer encryption for the rest of your data, from queues to databases to files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're looking for ALE for the rest of your data, from queues to databases to files
```

---
layout: post
title:  "OpenSearch partner highlight: Using Cloaked Search to protect your data"
authors:
  - zmre

> date:   2022-11-09 1

Reviewer 2: apologies @BobWall23 - one last change - can you update this to today's date? We want to make sure it lists as the latest on the blog

2022-11-14

Author: @krisfreedain Meant to do that and forgot.

Reviewer 2: thanks @BobWall23 !

categories:
  - partners
---

Most companies will tell you that the data they hold is well protected. They'll say it's encrypted “at rest and
in transit,” which means they use HTTPS and disk-level or database-level encryption. Unfortunately, this isn't
the protection most people think it is.

## Most encryption claims are smoke and mirrors

What passes for data protection these days is often wildly overblown on the “protection” front.

HTTPS protects the data for a brief moment in time by warding off eavesdroppers and interlopers, but it
**doesn't change the availability of the data**. For example, this blog is served over HTTPS, and you are
probably not authenticated.

“At-rest encryption” is really only useful when someone steals a hard drive. When used by an always-on server,
the value drops to near zero. That's because the encryption key is only needed when the system starts up, after
which the protection is transparent to anybody accessing the server.

> ![Application-Layer Encryption]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/media/blog-images/2022-11-09-OpenSearch-Partner-Highlight-Using-Cloaked-Search/app-layer-enc.png){:class="img-centered"}

Reviewer 2: Please change from {:class="img-centered"} to {: .img-fluid}

the news.

## Why encrypt data in OpenSearch?

Search services are often an underprotected backdoor way to gain access to sensitive data. They frequently hold
many different types of data that should be protected: personal information like names and addresses; log data
that includes web form submissions; communications records like emails, customer messages, and chats;
insider-trading fodder like roadmap info, financial projections, legal documents; and a variety of other
data that should be defended against unauthorized access.

A search service is akin to an attractive nuisance. Just as a swimming pool without a fence will attract
neighborhood kids, search data without encryption will attract hackers and employees.

The employee side is what we call the “curious insider” problem, where trusted users ignore policy and bypass or
abuse application-level access controls in order to peek at data they shouldn't. In most companies, employees in
roles such as database administration, ops, customer support, and engineering can sneak peeks at sensitive data.
These trusted folks who scratch the itch of curiosity can get a company in just as much trouble as a hacker.

> ![Cloaked Search Proxy]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/media/blog-images/2022-11-09-OpenSearch-Partner-Highlight-Using-Cloaked-Search/cloaked-search-proxy.png){:class="img-centered"}

Reviewer 2: Please change from {:class="img-centered"} to {: .img-fluid}
